hey
you laugh
good evening everyone i will go ahead
and call our august
9th 2022 school board meeting for
pennsylvania county to order if you bear
with me just a minute we have a couple
things we need to do from closed at this
time though i'd like mrs hancock to do a
roll call please
mr burton president mr fitzgerald
mr henderson president mrs merrick's
president mr mills here mr moon here mr
dos here
do you have a motion to certify closed
action fires
aye ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss all right
uh motions from close please we have a
motion to approve personnel changes by
august 9 2022 as presented
any discussion on
all right roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr meals
aye mr moon aye mr doss hi
we have a motion to waive school board
policy gbo pc retirement for
lena jones to allow her to retire on the
early retirement incentive program
effective october 31 2022. i'll make a
motion
any discussion
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald mr henderson
aye ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss all right
and we have a motion to be to approve
the release from compulsory attendance
for nine students based on religious
exemption i'll make a motion
second
any discussion
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
well then welcome to our school board
meeting tonight it's good to see this
many in the audience and for those at
home
that are streaming can y'all believe
today was the first day of school for
this year
summer went by way too fast right
yeah
it did
i'm sure dr jones will be talking a
little bit about school opening today
when we get to his part tonight but as
far as i know it went pretty smooth i
didn't get my phone didn't ring off the
hook so you all must have done a really
good job
so i do appreciate it it's just hard to
believe that here we are in 2022 and 23
already
at this time are there any additions to
the agenda
can i have approved agenda as is then
so
far
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye ms
henderson aye ms merritt aye mr meals
aye mr moon aye mr doss aye
move we approve the consent agenda
second
any discussion on any of the consent
agenda items
if not roll call please
aye mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
mr doss aye
about you do we have any new employees
in the audience out here today
good evening mr dallas yes we do we have
one employee we have mr robert hicks
he's a teacher aide that's been hired at
dan river high school for this coming
school year well the school year to
start today
i believe mr higgs is in the back
oh thank you appreciate you coming
tonight mr welcome aboard
okay um
recognition of student achievements miss
patty you're going to recognize some
students for us
what school are you going to start with
miss patty
dan rivera
chairman doss
school board members dr jones it is my
pleasure to recognize students at this
time in the area
of athletics and academics i will start
with
recognitions for dan river high school
outdoor track i would like to invite
principal
mrs anastasia brumell
her assistant principals are mr franklin
ferguson
and assistant principal
ms jessica gardner who's also the
athletic director
and if the head coach is present i also
invite him to come forward mr brian
womack an assistant
head coach and assistant coaches mr
maurice reynolds and mr elsie moore
i'll begin
with the certificate
to the school
it reads pennsylvania county schools
this certificate of excellence is
presented to dan river high school in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for outdoor
track boys class 2c state competition
for about 400 relay second place granted
this ninth day of august 2022 by the
pennsylvania county school board calvin
doss chairman and don moon vice chairman
congratulations the first student
i would like to recognize
is asa fletcher
outdoor track boys class 2 state
competition 800 meter state champion
congratulations
asa fletcher
[Applause]
asa fletcher is also recognized for
outdoor track boys class 2c competition
1600 meters state
champion
congratulations
[Applause]
i'd also
like to recognize members
of the outdoor track boys class uc state
for about 400 relay the members are
ty lyric coleman
asa fletcher
shamar ferguson
sean stork
marion
shirley
[Applause]
congratulations on your second place
accomplishment thank you so much
and again let's give a big round of
applause to dan river high school
[Applause]
next
have a student recognition for tulsa
high school
i like to invite the principal mr brian
bowles to come forward
assistant principals are lisa todd
and dustin eckles dustin nichols is also
the athletic director and if the coaches
are present i invite them to come
forward as well head coach mr iri
emerson
and mr cameron hairston assistant coach
i would like to recognize
the following student
the certificate reads pennsylvania
county schools the certificate of
excellence is presented to
jamarcus brown in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for outdoor track boys class three
states second place tie for the high
jump granted this ninth day of august
2022 by the pennsylvania county school
board calvin dawson's chairman and don
moon vice chairman congratulations to
marcus
let's give another round of applause to
marcus brown tuscal high school
thank you
at this time
i would like to
recognize
national junior beta
competition winners from mount airy
elementary
i'd like to invite miss pam fields
principal to come forward
i'd like to share the certificate which
reads
pennsylvania county schools the
certificate of excellence is presented
to
members of the competition team in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for placing
fourth in the engineering competition at
the national junior beta club convention
granted this ninth day of august 2022 by
the pennsylvania county school board
calvin dahl's chairman don moon vice
chairman
our first student to be recognized for
this team
is kinsley wertz
congratulations kinsley
[Applause]
addison younger
congratulations addison
[Music]
next
reagan younger
[Music]
isaac wilson
congratulations ah
and team member jada kohl's
congratulations jada and congratulations
members of the mount airy elementary
school engineering competition team and
thank you school board members for
joining in these recognitions
with our sponsors also come forward
please
thank you sponsors for joining us
and thank you all
we will end our student recognitions
with national skills usa and i'd like to
invite miss angela rigney to come
forward for these recognitions ms rigney
is director of career and technical
education thank you
i've got several recognitions this
evening so i'm going to go ahead and ask
our
multiple
board members because i do have
representatives from all areas and also
ms dalton principal at pittsburgh
current technical center to come down
front
good evening mr dolls dr jones school
board members assistant superintendents
and guests it brings me great pleasure
to stand before you this evening to
recognize the accomplishments of
numerous students teachers and programs
in our division
i will start first with jacob richardson
jacob is a senior from dan river high
school placed as a finalist for the
national cyber scholarship foundation by
completing twenty thousand or more
points in the cyber start american ctf
challenges
jacob is a senior at pctc and mr
mckinney's computer systems technology
program and last year completed mr
mckinney's computer network hardware
program the national cyber scholarship
foundation is working hard to address
the current cyber skills shortages by
developing and championing the next
generation of cyber security
professionals through the provision of 2
million in scholarships and 13.8 million
in cyber security training please join
me in recognizing jacob and his
instructor mr josh mckinney on this
accomplishment
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you jacob
the national skills usa leadership and
skills conference was held june
twentieth
twenty twenty two in atlanta georgia
skills usa is a national organization
that serves technical skilled and
service occupation instructional
programs and high schools career and
technical centers service occupational
programs and two and four-year colleges
and universities skillsusa helps
students discover and grow their career
passions as a nationwide partnership of
students instructors and industry
working together skillsusa works to
ensure america has a skilled workforce
the following students represented
pennsylvania county schools and virginia
skillsusa at the national leadership and
skills usa conference this summer
leighton wilson leighton competed in the
cnc mill and specialist category in this
competition leighton had to write
several cnc milling programs interpret
prints measure engaged parts leighton
placed six in the nation in the cnc mill
and specialist competition leighton is a
2022 graduate of gretna high school and
will be attending dcc in the fall and
leighton is not able to be with us this
evening and mr spears if you'll come on
down as well
[Laughter]
you're light
and you just stay there mr spears
hughes
competed in a cnc technician competition
in this competition he had to write cnc
turning and milling programs interpret
prints and measure engaged parts all
while demonstrating theoretical
knowledge of cnc machine configuring
setup and operations
blake placed 13th overall in the nation
in the cnc technician competition blake
is a 2022 graduate of dan river high
school and will be attending dcc in the
fall
[Applause]
can you stay right there
blake
caleb caleb wells competed in the cnc
turning specialist competition in this
competition
caleb had to write
cnc turning programs interpret prints
and measure engaged parts all while
demonstrating theoretical knowledge of a
cnc machine
caleb placed fifth overall in the nation
in the cnc turning specialist
competition caleb is a 2022 graduate of
chatham high school and will also be
attending dcc in the fall
most of our students had to work tonight
so
they're in the real world now
leighton blake and caleb are all 2022
graduates of the precision machining
program at the pennsylvania career and
technical center under the instruction
of mr robert spears i would also like to
express my sincere appreciation to trent
oswald for supporting and training these
students for the state and national
competition trent was a 2019 graduate of
chatham high school and pctc and was the
cnc milling specialist national champion
in 2019. congratulations to all of these
machining students
[Applause]
okay you're good
mr bart's if you'll come on down
next i'll recognize tony myers and
charlie c forth they competed in the
mechatronics competition in this
competition students combine their
industrial skills of mechanics
electronics and computer-based controls
with a team-oriented approach to problem
solving
tawny and charlie placed 15 overall in
the nation
tony is a senior at gretna high school
who completed the mechatronics and
electricity program this past year at
pctc and is now a senior enrolled in the
industrial maintenance program at pctc
charlie is a 2022 graduate of gretna
high school and completed the
mechatronics and electricity program at
pctc and will be attending dcc in the
fall
mr brandon bartz was the coach and
instructor for both of these students on
the mechatronics competition
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you
next i'll recognize our welding
fabrication team
tanner cole lillian hudgins and paige
hyler all competed in the welding
fabrication contest
students were judged on the skill
performance assessments that include the
completion of a metal project and a
demonstration of the ability to weld
carbine steel aluminum or stainless
steel project in various positions using
a variety of filler metals contestants
were involved in the competition of
metal project that also involves various
manufacturing methods the welding
fabrication team placed 22nd in the
nation
lillian and tanner are 2022 graduates of
gretna high school and pctc and paige is
a senior at tunstall high school and
pctc
lillian and tanner and paige are
students in the welding program at pctc
under the instruction of mr travis wood
and they are all
working and unable to be with us tonight
so i'm going to give this to
yes
mr spears mr wood mr bartz all accompany
accompany these students to the national
competition i will say after many long
hours and dedication that was poured
into the preparation for this contest i
would like to thank all of them their
hard work and dedication i would also
like to thank our students for their
commitment and dedication i would also
like to say a very special thank you to
miss dalton miss dalton and i also had
the opportunity to accompany the
students and the teachers to the
national competition and i can tell you
i told the students and the teachers
firsthand to make sure they wore
comfortable shoes and be prepared to
walk miss dalton and i calculated it and
we walked over what was it 33 miles 36
miles during that week so a lot of long
days a lot of long nights and not a lot
of sleep we had a fabulous group we
could not have asked for a better group
of students to take out and represent
pennsylvania county schools as well as
the state of virginia so i congratulate
all of these i also want to thank
all of the coaches that continue to give
their time energy and effort after hours
the instructors who demonstrate a
passion for their skill area and sport
and wish to give these students the
opportunity to be well-rounded i also
want to thank their parents for giving
us the opportunity to spend a week with
them many of them we flew this was their
first opportunity and i must say it was
very fun to be able to experience this
with them so again thank you and
congratulations to all of these students
[Applause]
[Music]
this that one
i do have one more recognition this
evening the pennsylvania current
technical center's automotive technology
program is recognized in the community
for partnering with local business and
industry leaders to supply highly
skilled knowledgeable and conscientious
auto mechanics for the community and
region students learn how to maintain
service and repair all systems of an
automobile including the operation and
repair of components
such as the internal combustion engine
carburetor steering alignment cooling
and drivetrain automotive technology
students are active in their current
technical student organizations and
compete in skillsusa competitions i am
pleased to announce that on behalf of
the virginia department of education the
automotive technology program nominated
by pennsylvania county public schools
was selected as the region 6 state
winner of the 2022 creating excellence
program award the creating excellence
awards are presented annually to
recognize exemplary programs and
partnerships that promote excellence in
career and technical education please
join me in congratulating mr mark
chandler auto technology instructor and
ms jessica dalton pctc principal on this
honor
mr chandler
[Applause]
[Music]
uh
thank you
thank you miss right now this dog y'all
doing an outstanding job out there i
know sometimes you just don't get credit
for it but it's a testament to all the
hard work that you and your staff do out
at that school and i'd encourage anybody
if they get a chance to go look at some
of the stuff they do it is wonderful
y'all do a great job thank you
next we have character word of the month
mr harris there you are
now students y'all pay close attention
because next month one of y'all get to
do this okay
so y'all watching pay close attention
good evening to chairman dolls to the
school board members
earlier today we officially began our
2022-23 academic year and i'm proud to
introduce the character word for the
month of august
our student representatives will be
following each month with a different
character word so tonight i will focus
on the word of courage with a poem that
was written by nicole warner
courage
courage to speak up
courage to stand up
courage to say yes
encouraged to say no
courage to make a change to view
something in a new light
courage to let go
and the courage to go
after
courage to start
courage to end
courage to walk away or
to sit still
courage to grow
courage also to stop
everything begins with courage may god
bless our school division with the
wisdom needed for this great 2022
academic year thank you
thank you mr harrison
[Music]
next we have pennsylvanians for a
brighter future ms mccluster i see you
going to speak to us tonight welcome
good to see you you too
pull this down because i know at our
meetings nobody can hear
all right good evening mr chairman
members of the board dr jones staff and
members of the community i'm kaylen
mccluster and i live in the stanton
river district and i'm here tonight
speaking on the vote yes for pcs
campaign
i know you all are very familiar with
the sales tax question that's going to
be on the referendum in november
and
we have the opportunity to approve this
new 1 sales tax that's going to generate
approximately 3.8 million dollars it's
important for every voter in the county
to understand that this new revenue may
only be used for school construction and
or renovation
this sales tax will not apply to
groceries medication or certain
agricultural products i think that's a
huge thing that everyone needs to
understand it's not completely across
the board it's you know a lot of people
i've had a lot of questions on that but
there are those exceptions in there
we also know that surrounding areas have
already passed this they've already
implemented that one percent sales tax
for school improvements so when we're
over there and we're shopping in their
communities we're helping them to pay
for their schools in their city and
those counties and this is the way to
allow everybody that comes through hours
to shop to help us
i love the fact that he just spoke on
the word courage i think that's very
important when it does come to this
campaign
it does take courage to stand up and ask
people will you please vote yes for a
one percent sales tax increase
but this is for our schools it is for
our children
it has to be in my opinion the most fair
tax there is it doesn't matter your
social status it doesn't matter where
you live you don't have to be a resident
of the county if you're here shopping
you are helping to pay for that and our
kids deserve that um i'm also going to
speak on
myself being a parent with children in
the county schools
and we all know that crime and violence
have become common in the schools across
the nation and our children need and
deserve the safer entrances that allow
school personnel to better secure the
buildings as a parent myself i am
concerned not only about my children but
all the children in the county and there
are so many that are still in mobile
units outside there is no security for
those children
if this is a way that we can stand up
and have that courage to make that
change
this is huge it is absolutely huge for
the residents of this county for the
children that are in our schools they
need and they deserve that safety and we
as parents
deserve to feel that our children are
safe when we when they go to school a
lot of the schools right now don't even
have the safety vestibule when you come
in and that is huge when i go to pick my
kids up from school i promise you
nobody's getting in that school they you
know they have a camera they want to see
you
i love that a lot of schools don't have
that and it is very very much needed
so tonight i'm just here to thank you
all for your investment in this effort
and i would love for you all to continue
your support we would love for anybody
that is willing to come out help us at
the polls we're going to have community
meetings there are going to be you know
football games that are starting up
anything that you can think is community
related chances are we're going to be
there we're going to be standing there
with flyers we're going to be there
asking you know helping to answer
questions that are asked there are a lot
of questions and this did fail by only
14 votes last year so
that's a very very small margin of
people that we do have to win over and i
think the biggest misconception is that
they don't truly understand what this is
for it doesn't go to salaries it doesn't
go to
any kind of operating things it's all
for improvements and construction for
these schools and that's extremely
important we have a website we have a
facebook page if any of you would like
to go on there you can share it if
anybody that's watching would like to
reach out and volunteer please you can
email dr jones
any of your school board members they
will be happy you know to get anybody in
touch with the proper channels to be on
our committee um if you have any
questions i'll be glad to answer them if
not i thank you for your time
thank you ms mcclasson thank you and i
hope to see you at the polls again this
year because you were there all day last
year because i was rain or not
you were thank you thank you
you know i don't know if this is correct
that's what i was told so don't hold me
to it if it's wrong i'm apologize but
i've been told as much as 30
of the revenues and surrounding areas
are being collected from out of county
residents
so that means for every dollar they
spend it on construction 30 cents of
that is being paid by somebody outside
the county just like i go to danville
and shop or whatever
so i think you're right it is a huge way
to get our schools
renovated and improved without really
hurting the taxpayers that bad
so i hope everybody will
at least look at it very close and
understand how this what the one percent
is for and how it works because i think
if you do you'll understand it's very
important that we go this way
thank you i appreciate your help
we also have a presentation of support
from the naacp i'm going to ask mr scott
if he will to read it please
good evening
our school division is in receipt of the
following kind letter of support written
by the pennsylvania county branch of the
naacp
on august 2nd
2022 in support of the upcoming ballot
referendum for the proposed 1 percent
increase in our county's sales tax
attention dr mark jones mr calvin doss
and school board members
on behalf of the pennsylvania county
branch of the naacp
national association for the advancement
of colored people we are once again
submitting this letter in support of the
one percent tax increase proposed for
the november 8th
2022 election
we are supporting this increase with the
understanding that it is to be used
towards renovation of the county's 10
elementary schools and the pennsylvania
career and technical center
the decision to support the increase has
been recorded in our minutes from our
last meeting on july 5th
2022 and will be kept on record for
future reference yours truly anita
royston president
thank you mr scott the naacp has been a
huge supporter of pennsylvania county
schools for many years dating way back
to mr fitzgerald
and i want to thank them for their
support and continued support and being
a partner with us because it truly takes
the community
to help do this so thank
thank you for the naacp for this support
next we have our pennsylvania county
education association dr jessica jones i
see you sitting in the back you wait
did you have a good day today
good
thank you we appreciate it we look
forward to seeing you next month
uh under staff and committee reports is
next we have a summer piedmont regional
government school
who's
mr harrison you gonna
think i've got your name by that
you get the next two so you can talk
about the regional school and the
governor the other summer governor
school okay okay which one would you
like to hear from let's go ahead with
the regional governor's school first
okay the
piedmont summer regional governor's
school right that is my
my program okay uh which was held the
third and fourth week of june uh we had
368 students who participated from seven
school divisions and from five private
schools and so this is our 39th year
in holding this activity here in
pennsylvania county at chatham high
school
pennsylvania county has been very
fortunate in being able to host this it
was created again
39 years ago with miss avery wyatt and
will continue to serve as the catalyst
for our fourth through seventh grade
students to be able to embark upon a
summer enrichment program
that allowed them to come together with
like-mindedness of other
students of their age and to be able to
participate in activities along with
field trips which was the 36 field trips
this year
excuse me
and so our students were able to
to fully participate in this
not
on campus
last year we did have to go partially
remote and again we just support those
other school divisions that have helped
with with this if it was not for the
support of the pistol man county school
board with this
then more than likely this event would
have to be housed somewhere else and so
um students from franklin county bedford
county campbell county often those
students are having to travel each day
or each
going to chatham high into back
roughly approximately about an hour hour
and 15 minutes ride and so our students
are able to have this locally within
their own backyard and so we do thank
you for your support we do thank you for
um being a great um
supporter of our gift to students not
only for pennsylvania county but for
our region as well
and so the second
program is summer residential governor's
school yes summer residential governor's
school program we had five students who
were able to participate in that
three of those students um were with the
humanities
that took place at radford university
and so that is a four-week program that
is designated for
rising
10th and 11th grade students
who were able to participate and so we
did have
again five or five students from the
county who was able to participate
pennsylvania county schools provide the
tuition full tuition for those students
and their support and so again we do
thank the board
for your
dedication and for your financial
support to allow this to be possible for
our students so thank you
thank you mr harrison we appreciate all
the hard work you do with the gifted mr
dolls mr dos
we also have one of our school board
representatives was at the some
residence who governor school program
this summer which one
who went
you want to tell us if you think a
little bit what you did
so i went to the summer residential
governor's school at the university of
lynchburg it was the
science technology and mathematics one
um
it was a wonderful program i'd like to
thank mr harrison for
putting me on to that
i took a four week long meteorology
program and it actually swayed my major
and now i'm going to go to school for
that so
good
thank you i appreciate that thank you dr
jones let me know
um next is an operational department
update mr scott i see you already coming
this report is presented to provide
information about current matters
relative to division operations during
the first 30 days of school each school
in the division will conduct weekly fire
and lockdown drills in accordance with
statutory requirements
these drills will continue on a monthly
basis for the balance of the school year
additionally at greater intervals
throughout the year schools will
practice their emergency school bus
evacuation earthquake and tornado
responses school and division level
personnel monitor and document these
drills which conducted on announced and
unannounced bases
the routine schedule according to which
our school system safety related
exercises are conducted is designed to
assist in identifying needed changes and
improvements to our crisis management
protocols and to provide opportunity for
reflection upon best practices to assist
in the evaluation of schools crisis
preparedness the operations department
conducts annual
school safety audits which are scheduled
to begin later this semester
the reports from these audits and the
division level report
also serve as guidance documents in
applying for state school security
equipment grants and in planning for
related capital improvements as a result
of school security equipment grant
funding awarded in recent years
our school division has been able to
update video surveillance and audio
communication systems in many of its
schools our school division has applied
for school security equipment grant
funds again this year and awarded these
funds will assist in securing additional
security cameras card reader equipped
entrances and other equipment to enhance
the security of our buildings
we are also fortunate to have the
support of numerous agencies especially
the virginia department of criminal
justice services and the pennsylvania
county sheriff's department in our
efforts to shield our children and
employees from harm our division has
recently applied for and received
funding from the virginia department of
criminal justice services for the
creation of collaborative response
graphics for the 21 schools in our
county
these crgs are site-specific digital
maps that enable better communication
during an emergency they combine
accurate floor plans high resolution
imagery emergency response planning and
gridded overlays into one map
in addition to these maps our
information technology department is
collaborating with the sheriff's
department to provide real-time access
to school video cameras in the event of
an emergency
our school system is also supporting the
pennsylvania county sheriff's department
in its application for a grant to
provide funding for the placement of
gunshot detection units in all county
schools these initiatives will greatly
benefit our school safety and security
properly maintained infrastructure also
plays a critical role in protecting the
safety of all stakeholders in our
buildings the following information
pertains to maintenance projects
currently underway throughout the
division all football field lights are
currently working with the exception of
those at tunstall high school danville
city power is installing a new 480 volt
transformer to power the new lights at
this location and lighting upgrades
should be complete before the first
football game on august 25th
crews will be on site next week to
complete testing and final positioning
of all field lights
at kentuck on-site work inside the
school has stopped until next summer
there will be some work continuing in
the boiler room and in back of the
school in the hvac chiller location as
materials arrive the chillers however
will not be placed online until the new
equipment inside the school can be
installed next summer
as it can talk work inside the building
has stopped until next summer at the
pennsylvania career and technical center
there will be some work on going in the
boiler room and in back of the school at
the hvac chiller location at this school
as well
solar panel installation has been
completed at dan river and tunstall high
schools and work is currently underway
at chatham and gretna high schools it is
anticipated that all four high school
systems will be online by mid-september
engineers and project coordinators are
presently finalizing plans for the
placement of panels on the middle
schools during the next phase of this
project
new the new well
at dan river high school is nearing
completion and final work on the project
is pending receipt of the final plans
from the project engineer the kentucky
wastewater drain field expansion project
will be sent out for bid as soon as the
project engineer completes and submits
plans
materials for the roofing project at
broswell elementary school are scheduled
to
be here by the end of september and work
should start within two weeks of their
receipt depending upon the weather the
installation of new roofing at pctc will
begin this fall following the receipt of
materials however a delivery date for
these items has not yet been received we
appreciate the diligence of mr hudson
and his staff in their constant
attention to maintaining safe and
up-to-date facilities among the many
projects underway in the information
technology department are the
implementation of the school pass
visitor screening system and the
goguardian content filter and online
student management software in
conjunction with the divisions one to
one student to device initiatives all
high school students will receive
chromebook devices this fall
the arrival of these devices is
anticipated in the near future and
distribution will begin shortly after
their receipt
ms reynolds and her staff are commended
for their work on these initiatives
and the transportation department
continues to work diligently to provide
safe and efficient transportation to all
students despite the ongoing nationwide
school bus driver shortage our school
systems drivers continue to demonstrate
outstanding dedication to ensuring that
our routes are covered
i especially thank our mechanics for
ensuring the safety of our fleet
and our other transportation department
staff especially our transportation
specialist mrs debbie shelton and our
retired director of transportation mr
bobby loveless for the many hours that
they have dedicated during the course of
the summer and that they continue to
dedicate
in helping to configure
and consolidate routes to meet our
students transportation needs
are there any questions regarding these
items
anybody have any questions
it's a whole lot
that's why mr hudson's sitting down back
here right tired
glad summer's over huh
i'm sure
thank you mr scott i appreciate it are
there any questions on the remaining
seven
which one
no we're not
anybody have any questions on the seven
if not we'll move on dr jones
yes sir mr dahl school board members um
each of our assistant superintendents
and departments have been very busy this
summer as illustrated by mr scott and
his department
instruction support services and human
resources have been extremely busy to
ensure that our buildings schools are
ready for students to return and i think
that was evidence of last thursday night
with open house and then the day there
seems to be a lot of excitement uh in
returning to school this year uh what
seems to be some getting back to normal
and i think people are feeling that and
really feeling
you know how
how well we how good we have it in
pennsylvania county i think i think our
students and staff are just very
appreciative of your support over the
last couple of years and i'm very
appreciative of staff and students and
what we've had to deal with for the past
couple of years so thanks to everyone
in our community and our schools for
what you've done
last
beginning
since our last meeting we've had our
principals meeting we've had new teacher
new staff orientation
we have had
open houses last week
beginning schools today so a lot has
taken place since our last meeting
new this year
we have opening at our stem academy we
have a 9th 10th grade transition program
that if you recall was begun a couple of
years ago but because of code we delayed
the start date till this year today
i was there miss petty was there and i
think probably several of them is
written i'm sure you were there today
just had a very good day with our 9th
and 10th graders coming in there if you
recall those students will take
environmental science they'll take
biology they'll take career connections
1 and 2 and they'll take medical science
1 and 2. you know if you look back to
five or six years ago we first met with
miss joan hendricks at our career and
technical center and we brought um
averitt university's uh nursing program
in to talk about our our
nursing health medical sciences program
in pennsylvania county and how to
enhance that and ms hendricks said what
we need to do first is we need to look
at medical sciences and so we're there
now we're offering that
bridge program from
the career the career connections
opportunities that we have in middle
school
bridging that with the opportunities
that we have at current technical center
our governor's school and aet in 11th
and 12th grade now we have a bridge
there but in with ninth and tenth grade
so that began today we also have new
this year miss petty and mr harrison are
looking at
pushing in our stem teachers into our
elementary schools and so they will be
out into our elementary schools
providing stem education for those
students
also
new this year and i want to be sure i'm
right we also have our industrial
maintenance robotics program is fully uh
being implemented this school year is
that correct i'm looking there for
nod there so a lot going on as far as
new programs in the beginning of school
but most importantly i think i see with
staff and students i think we're feeling
just maybe relief that we're back and
we're back somewhat to normal
i will talk a little bit later in my
comments to you all about what may be
the only thing that may be different
this year regarding covid but i'll talk
about that in a few minutes so any
questions that you all have i know that
you all have been in buildings over the
last few days any questions you all have
about beginning of school
i'll make a comment or two because i
want some of the staff to hear it i
spent most of the thursday afternoon at
twin springs
then i would visit careertech and went
to
chatham middle at the end of the day
but i was really impressed not only with
the condition of the buildings how clean
they were
and how they looked but also
the
attitude of staff and parents it's clean
springs it was full all afternoon
couldn't get a car anywhere else on the
lot i didn't see anybody get upset
nobody was rushed everybody was handled
the staff was just tickled to death to
see people
you can sit there and talk to bus
drivers for a while
they were in the cafeteria to meet
people talk about bus rats
but i talked to mr parker before i left
and complimenting him on how well things
went he even had a man had to do balloon
animals to entertain the kids who were
waiting to go around to the different
classes
uh so i was very impressed on how well
the staff handled and how well the
parents were i do know that miss dawson
is really proud of her new ceiling she
shows me every time i go in the building
so
maybe next year we'll take care of that
too
anybody else
i went to three schools mr burton that
afternoon and it was uh i did see a lot
of excitement in the students and
parents and you're right it was um they
did a good job well i guess what
surprised me
that i saw was a lot of them were there
at 1 30 instead of at 5 30. they were
there early
over my way
so i thought they did a really good job
a lot of happy people and a lot of happy
students back
it looked like
anybody else
mr dawes may i ask the student reps if
they have any anything about first day
of school can i put you guys on the spot
anything you'd like to share
um
so today was kind of like
eye opening to how different school had
been the past two years
and i know none of us have gotten a full
normal
year of high school because our freshman
year was when kovid
shut everything down second semester so
i'm really just looking forward to
hopefully having a normal year of high
school
okay thank you dr jones yes sir a couple
other items i have up in your packet we
have a draft policy from middle school
sports and i think you all would like to
discuss this during a work session later
but i did provide that for you all
i won't go go over it at this time
unless you'd like for me to we'll do it
in the work session okay
it's going to be in depth so we probably
need to really point to the work section
next item i have just an update on sales
tax referendum
we were at
the pacific for a brighter future were
at each of the open houses there was a
table set up they had volunteers there
to pass out flyers
we had representatives at the back to
school events this past saturday and
then this prior saturday in danville
one was at pcca and one was at the silas
mar four park both of those in chatham
then we have a pair teacher organization
meeting scheduled for this fall
if you are available uh if you'd like to
participate please let me know or just
be there that evening but that that
schedule is is there
uh in your packet
let me give that to you i don't think
it's
twin springs is september 9th at 6 30.
stoney meal september 22nd at 6
mount airy september 29th at 6
south side september 29th at 6 and then
denver middle october 13th at 6.
i think it's in there but i'll shoot
that to you as an email
and then the last item i have
the last time i have are the covet
protocols and this is the only coveted
protocol that we have right now other
than that then if
if a student or a staff member wishes to
wear a mask they can
but
protocol
cover protocol for someone who has
coveted is that they should remain at
home for the first five days
and if they're fever-free with no
symptoms they can come back on days six
through ten as long as they wear a mask
um and so those that is the extent to
right now our
protocols for covet
and i think that's all i have other than
the vsba meetings you have the the
advisory legislative advisory conference
on september 22nd you have the 17th
annual vsba
student school board representatives
meeting and that's on november the 16th
and we'll share information about that
with you all later and then the annual
vspa annual convention is november the
16th through the 18th in williamsburg
that's all i have in stock um board
members mrs hancock needs to know if
you're going to the november school
board conference in williamsburg so
can you she needs to know tonight if you
can mr wayne you're going yeah
mr berg
probably okay i am
fishing
with you okay
it's not
that all you have doctor jones yes sir
did they move the meeting this year
it says colonial williamsburg resort
it's at the same place
we're going to stay down where we're not
still at the bar
we're going to stay down next to the
whale and you know the motel will y'all
stay out there most of the time
okay yeah
okay
okay under unfinished business freedom
of choice program information dr jones i
think you received some information from
that group yes sir we've received some
information um and the committee
and so right now our committee is
reviewing the possibility of a wood
plaque uh 24 by 36 that would state the
top recognition of students who
participated in the freedom of choice
program at the four pennsylvania county
high schools
this committee would cover the cost of
the plaque
and the principle each school would
determine where the plaque will be
located
the freedom of choice committee members
would also like to meet with the
building committee of the school board
to to discuss these items at a later
date
mr henderson you are over the building
committee and i think mr moon and myself
are on it i would like to try to do that
relatively quick
i'm good uh for
do you have any preference
in preference nights
no
i'd like to go ahead as soon as possible
and get it out
yeah you know i would totally it may be
some discussion so i'd like to go ahead
and try to get it early
um
i said it tonight okay let's set the
meeting
let me get to
so she's got the 16th the 23rd of the
30th and they all tuesday nights
i'm good any of the three i've got um
we've got governor's school meeting on
the 30th so that may not be a good night
and we'll probably be through in time
but you're gonna be the 16th yeah that's
fine
16. yeah how quick can you get here mr
moon i can make it at whatever time 5 30
6.
shoot 5 30. that's fine okay 5 30.
thank you we'll shoot for the 16th at 5
30 then
okay is that all you have on that dr
jones yes sir may i ask a question about
that
have the high school's been contacted
what i'm thinking about
it would be nice if they could get a
similar place in all the buildings
not have one plaque or one in the
building another building
i don't believe we've done any of that
work have witnessed
we just got
the other day
they just gave miss hancock what they
wanted to do remember they were here
last year one flag with all of your
names they were here last month you know
we told them to come back with
everything she just got that a couple of
days ago so
that that's just the thing in my mind
might want to try to have similar
location
i'll definitely dr jones if you'll
remind us that what's going on the
comments
last time in the building they've got a
lot of stuff on their walls a lot of
stuff and then
all right
under new business a broadband lease and
easement agreement between brownsville
elementary and river street networks
movie approved
second
any discussion was touching you good
with all of this you looked at it i'm
sure
okay
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye mr
henderson aye
mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss hi
and the final thing is the
superintendent's evaluation tool
we need to approve that it has changed
slightly right yes it has it it mirrors
the principal and the teacher's
evaluation
so it's just something new the state
requires and it's a change so we need to
approve it
i'll make the motion i'll second it
any discussion well the question i was
going to answer this is because some
state has changed
any other questions
roll call please
all right mr fitzgerald mr henderson all
right chris merricks all right mr
meadows all right mr mankind all right
mr dobbs aye i'm entertaining a motion i
make a motion with a journey another
second
second hold on please
mr burton aye
mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye mr
eric aye ms mills aye
aye mr
thank you all for being here
appreciate y'all
you